## Introduction

Last few years a new technology called _REST_ is growing up. This technology was described by Roy Fielding in 2000 in his dissertation[[1](../README.md/#Fielding2000)]. It is mostly used around web where it found wide usability. The technology itself is called _REST_ however its implementation is called _RESTful_. The implementation is an API in this context. So the implementation can vary (and it does in real usage). However if basic principals of this technology are satisfied then an API can be called _RESTful_.

_RESTful API_ is only communication interface of some system or module as other API. The interface can be used by programmer for integration of programmer's system and a system which providers _RESTful API_. Similar integration is mostly known in field of corporations. There are many specific systems communicates together in a corporate field. The integration can be more powerful in the field of web. It could be easier to build a new service by combination of suitable _RESTful API_s similary to building general software using development libraries. However _RESTful API_ does not support functionality only but it also supports data and information.

_RESTful API_ is used in almost all web applications today. _RESTful API_ is typically implemented by social networks which publish the API to everyone afterwards. _RESTful API_ is generally always public however you can find a situation in which it is not wanted. It is typically _RESTful API_ of company internal systems which functionality and data must be protected. It can be API for special mobile application. The API must not be used by anyone else. There exists some security mechanisms which I will not talk about in this thesis.

Neither it is public or private _RESTful API_ it is important to keep documentation and tests up to date. If the API is public then it should be always requirement. The more _RESTful API_s exists in the world the more development, documentation and testing tools arises. It is a different programming style on a different level. At the end current tools for generating or testing regular software does not have to be good enough. Unfortunately most tools are created for development but amount of documentation and testing tools is relatively low.

Although the _REST_ can be implemented in various ways it was originally established as a generalization of the HTTP protocol. I will focus on HTTP protocol in this thesis for descriptions and examples. It is the most common implementation of _RESTful API_ in these days. The HTTP protocol is preferred or the only supported implementation of _REST_ by current _RESTful API_ testing tools.

This thesis is not focused on documentation or description of _RESTful API_. However I will mention it too shortly. The main topic of this thesis is testing of _RESTful API_. Documentation and description of API can be created in simple text editor if it is needed. The only needed thing is a set of conventions and rules. Testing is not good to simplify in the same way. Usage of special tools for this purpose is better in my opinion.

The reason why I want to focus on _RESTful API_ testing is very simple. It is needed to verify if implemented API works as expected. It can be done by some regular testing tool however it is a bit uncomfortable in my opinion. The testing, which I will focus on, should verify as much as possible expected situations specific for _RESTful API_. At the end it should be clear what is a difference between testing of _RESTful API_ and testing of regular software. I will also update or create some testing tool to be more comfortable testing _RESTful API_s using it. I want to make testing of _RESTful API_s easier to understand and to process it.

Because it is very different development way then ever before I also expect some differences in methods of applications which uses or provides _RESTful API_s. I will find these differences in this thesis. I will also find some similarities in field of regular software testing and _RESTful API_ testing. I want to do it because it is not so well known field in my opinion. There could be found many differences and surprising similarities.

I will also compare various exists tools which supports testing of _RESTful API_s. The I will find out some of their advantages and disadvantages. Based on this knowledge I can decide which testing tool is the best for testing _RESTful API_. At the end I will choose one tool which I will try to update for better usage to show my results in real.

I will focus on some basics related to regular software testing in the first chapter. It is good to repeat these basics first in my opinion. The second chapter will be focused on _RESTful API_ testing possibilities in these days and related tools. I will describe API Blueprint and Dredd in third chapter because it will be probably the tool which I will update at the end. The last chapter will focus on implementation of scenario testing using some exists tool.
